Hi guys.
We can't cover security groups in this lab and we've covered security groups quite a bit in this cause
so far especially in the last section.
But there's more to go over.
Now you may recognize the left hand side of this diagram from the previous section and what I've done
is I've removed some things that are not relevant so Availability Zones and subnets are not relevant
to security groups because security groups operate within your VPC so it doesn't matter where your instances
are sat.
They can be in any subnet in any availability zone and you can still apply a security group to them.
Now security groups operate as essentially firewalls running at the instance level.
And specifically they operate at the network interface level.
Now we're going to cover this configuration in a bit more detail shortly but firstly I just want to
go across to these security group tables that I have here.
So this is showing the detail security group and the default configuration of a custom security group.
So sorry if that's a bit confusing but what I mean is that when you create your accounts you have a
default security group in your default BPC and its rules are configured like this but whenever you create
custom security groups within that VPC or in any other VPC the configuration is slightly different.
So let's just review that.
So for each security you have inbound and outbound rules.
Now for the inbound rules what you're looking at is the destination port and protocol.
So just try and remember that as you specify the source where the traffic's coming from.
But the protocol in the port is actually the protocol import on the destination.
So this essentially says that the source is the security group I.D. which allows any instance that's
attached to the security group to talk to any other instances attached to the security group and on
any protocol and.
Then for the outbound rules we have the wildcard for IP before and V six.
So this just means any destination for either IP V4 or IP B6.
And again as any protocol any port when you create a custom security group the detail is that there
are no inbound rules but there's the deal.
The allow us are there for outbound.
So that means if you just create a custom security group and save it you would be able to send traffic
outbound from an easy to instance that's attached that has the security group attached to it but you
wouldn't be out to receive any traffic.
So you actually have to set up those rules.
Now as we can see here we've been a security group.
You can specify the I.D. of a security group.
You can specify an IP address and you can also specify a site a block and so one of the secure configurations
that we showed in the Elastic Load Balancing lab is where we're using the names of the security groups
the security group I.D. to restrict traffic.
So what we can see in this configuration is that the Internet facing LP which received traffic from
the Internet allows traffic to come in on port 80 from anywhere and then the outbound protocol refers
to the traffic being sent to the web front end.
So it allows you to sell send traffic using poor data to the public to security group and in turn the
public see two security group only is only allowed to receive traffic from the public Alby security
group and then you repeat that free to the back end.
And if you had the database layer as well we would do exactly the same thing.
And when we get into the RDX section of the course we're going to set up a multi tier architecture of
RDX on the back end and we'll see this in action but for now let's head over to the console and we're
just going to have a look at security groups.
So I mean the VPC dashboard and I'm going to head down to security group's and you can see here that
you have default security groups and these are created within each of these pieces so if we have a look
at these security groups and I haven't actually edited this one this is the default VPC security group
in a BBC that we just created recently and you can see that there is an inbound role and that role allows
traffic from this source to these destination protocols and ports and the source is the security group
itself.
So you can see that up here.
So the source is the same as itself.
So that means if you attach this to us and an instance or a series of instances they'll be able to talk
to each other by virtue of the fact that they're all part of the same security group.
Now if we then created a custom security group let's just call this test that's g and we need to copy
that down into the description and let's just put that into our custom VPC so we've now created a custom
security group and it doesn't matter whether it's in a custom BBC or somewhere else.
So we don't have any inbound rules which means if you attached a security group to some instances they
won't be able to receive any traffic or at least not because of this security group.
Remember you can attach multiple security groups to an instance you can have as many instances as you
want in a security group and you can attach up to five security groups to an individual instance
are things you remember about security groups just going back to the diagram here is that state full
say when you send any traffic coming in the return traffic is allowed by default.
So if you remember the Internet facing I'll be here as an inbound protocol port of 80 the only outbound
protocol port it has is also 80 and that's going to the public see two instances.
So there's no rule to allow traffic back out to the Internet to the clients from which it received the
traffic because as a state for firewall it knows about the connections and it allows or return traffic
to go back out again.
So you only need to specify the rule in one direction.
Now going back to the rules we can have a list of rules and what happens is each rule is evaluated until
a permit is encountered or otherwise it just continues through the list until the end where there's
an implicit deny.
So essentially that means all rules of permit rules.
So there's a rule in here that allows traffic in a certain direction on a certain protocol and Paul
if it doesn't exist the traffic gets dropped there's no such thing as deny rule.
There are only permit rules.
So the rules are evaluated in order until a permit is encountered for the traffic that's being filtered
and if a permit isn't encountered then the traffic just gets dropped which essentially means there's
an implicit deny at the end of the list so one more thing to mention is the security groups can be changed
while instances are running and the effects are pretty much immediate and we've seen this in some of
the labs before where we've made some changes and immediately the change is implemented.
And if you're allowing a certain port through as soon as you save that security group very quickly you'll
be able to then send that traffic.
So you don't have to take your instances down.
You don't have to reboot them or wait for any periods of time.
So let's just go back to the console and look at rules that a bit more detail.
So when we add a rule we get to choose from custom DCP or UDP or ICMP or we can go down and choose All
TGP UDP or ICMP and beneath that we have options for a traffic option or we have well-known ports that
are defined.
So you select SSA h it fills in Port 22 because that's a well-known port.
Similarly does 25 for a 70 P and DNS UDP fifty free and so on.
So we can just go down this list and select the protocols that we want to allow and we can then choose
to specify the source.
And as you can see here in this information you can specify a single IP address an IP address range
inside the notation or you can specify a security group by D.
And if you want to specify a specific IP address this is the format.
So you specify the IP address and then slash 32 on the end to mean this exact address so let's just
copy and paste it in here.
So what this rule will do now is it will allow hygiene CPS inbound from this IP address and know over
IP address because we've got Slash 32 on the end
we can also select anywhere and it will just automatically fill in 0 8 0 0 0 0 slash 0 which is the
IP V4 version of anywhere or colon colon slash 0 which is the IP v 6 version that means anywhere or
we can select my IP and actually goes and picks up the IP that you're connected from.
So I'm just going to cancel out of that and delete the security group because we don't need it now.
That's it for this lab.
It was really just to go over some of the concepts around security groups again and we've been using
them throughout the course and we're going to keep using them throughout the rest of the course.
So you should have great hands on knowledge of security groups by the end of this course.